What would you say are the
critical success factors in the
acquisition or merger, in
the integration after an
acquisition or a merger?
I do, there is one thing I feel
proud of in my life, that I
feel proud of many things, but it
is that I have had the luck to
make so many acquisitions.
Because a purchase, the purchase of
a company and making it part of
your world, the first thing accelerates
your knowledge of others at
a brutal speed.
That is, what you would know in a
company in three years, in five
days, you have to know.
And you know it better than the
owner, because you have to
do doodle, e.t.c.
And second, you learn so much from
people who have been so successful,
that it's a brutal experience.
This is to give you the two sides
of the coin, what is right,
what is wrong, how complicated it
is to integrate a company.
And I'm going to give you some formulas
of what has gone well in over 60 and
so many acquisitions that I've done
in 20 and so many countries in
the world.
The first thing is to be very clear about
what you want to do.
When you buy a company, you
have to have a strategy for
what you buy it.
The second is that the company
meets the goal you have purchased.
That is, if I want to win market
share, that company has to be
in the markets where I am not
and be solid in their customer base.
If it turns out that I want to win market
and have no customers, because that's what
they want to do.
It is a major factor in that.
This is something you have to look
at before you make a purchase.
The second is to be very clear with
employees.
There is always a fear of telling the truth.
I have never been afraid to tell
the truth.
So, being very clear the day after
the purchase and say, look, what's
going to happen is this, this,
this and this.
What will not happen is this.
And that it happens.
For example, when I made a purchase,
I changed the financial director
of the other company.
always to.
I did not even talk...
When I say I didn't talk to him, I don't
want to...
Of course I was talking to him.
And also humanly tried to understand
why.
But a financial manager in an integration
is someone fundamental.
If you are financially unable to
connect the company, you have a problem.
The financial manager has to be changed.
It is not about judging whether
it is good or bad.
No, no, no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no.
That is, culturally, if you
are not able to tie the company
financially the next day, you
are lost.
And that's something I've done
from the beginning.
The second is the brand.
The brand can't be waiting to see
what's going to happen with
integration to see what we do with
the brand.
The next day, the brand strategy
has to be put into effect.
It was always the same.
We came to the companies we bought
and they said already, but it is
that my brand is very well known,
we can't lose it.
We'll wait a couple of years
to see.
No to.
The brand strategy.
Look, your brand will pass this,
this, this.
We will inform the employees and we
will do it tomorrow.
It cannot be quiet.
The brand strategy must
be clear.
And then, what are your goals?
So that the new company, both
those who are bought and those
who buy, understand what the goals are.
What is what to do?
If those things were in the after
briefing, I would always personally
be in front of all the employees
the next day every time I
made a purchase.
And when I say all employees, it's
everyone.
That is, I bought companies with 3,
000 employees and had to travel that
day to three cities across Europe.
I have done.
But in one day I saw all the employees
and made it very clear to them
how many I was going to fire.
Why would he have to dismiss them
and how much would he pay them in public,
in front of everyone else?
Who would not be able to give up
if they met the goals we had
and what were they?
What would happen to the brand
and that financially, I'm sorry,
but there was absolute control?
Only when you do that can you succeed.
If you leave any of those
legs over time, the detractors,
the pessimists, the negatives,
start to devour the company.
These are the rules that should
be clearly defined the next day.
And then it has to be very
clear.
A company is said to be when you
buy a company one plus one are
two.
I've never made a purchase of my 60s
and so many acquisitions in 20s
and so many countries in the world
where I've seen one plus one are
two.
If you get one plus one,
you can be very happy.
There are acquisitions that have
been successful, most have been very
successful, and there are acquisitions
that have really failed to
meet our goals.
For example, where we have failed
most is with the famous cross-selling.
We always think I have a product,
you have another product, I buy
you and we will do a cross-
selling of the databases.
And we are never and always unable
to realize what it means for
a customer to handle a product.
The learning time, the learning curve,
the investment you have made,
the Stockholm syndrome you have,
even if it doesn't go well, you
want it.
When you try to transform your product
for another, because you know
it's better, human barriers are
not taken into account.
So I can tell you that cross-
selling, not just in my personal
experience, when you study
other cases, has not been
so easy.
And it's because we don't take into account,
we always make a calculation
sheet, we make a business plan, we
do things that don't have soul.
And when we put the soul on it we
realize that there are people
behind it and those people somehow
don't want to change in some case.
It's better, but I don't want to change.
And that is not rational.